# graph_vs_graph_logos

This figure summarizes the results of the graph-vs-graph analysis. At the
top are six
2D UMAP projections of clonotypes in the dataset based on GEX similarity
(top left three panels) and TCR similarity (top right three panels),
colored from left to right by GEX cluster assignment; CoNGA score; joint
GEX:TCR cluster assignment for clonotypes with significant CoNGA scores,
using a bicolored disk whose left half indicates GEX cluster and whose right
half indicates TCR cluster; TCR cluster; CoNGA score; GEX:TCR cluster
assignments for CoNGA hits, as in the third panel.

Below are two rows of GEX landscape plots colored by (first row, left)
expression of selected marker genes, (second row, left) Z-score normalized and
GEX-neighborhood averaged expression of the same marker genes, and
(both rows, right) TCR sequence features (see CoNGA manuscript Table S3 for
TCR feature descriptions).

GEX and TCR sequence features of CoNGA hits in clusters with 5 or more hits
are summarized by a series of logo-style visualizations, from left to right:
differentially expressed genes (DEGs), TCR sequence logos showing the V and
J gene usage and CDR3 sequences for the TCR alpha and beta chains; biased
TCR sequence scores, with red indicating elevated scores and blue indicating
decreased scores relative to the rest of the dataset (see CoNGA manuscript
Table S3 for score definitions); GEX 'logos' for each CoNGA cluster
consisting of a panel of marker genes shown with red disks colored by
mean expression and sized according to the fraction of cells expressing
the gene (gene names are given above).

DEG and TCRseq sequence logos are scaled
by the adjusted P value of the associations, with full logo height requiring
a top adjusted P value below 10-6. DEGs with fold-change less than 2 are shown
in gray. Each cluster is indicated by a bicolored disk colored according to
GEX cluster (left half) and TCR cluster (right half). The two numbers above
each disk show the number of hits within the CoNGA cluster (on the left) and
the total number of cells in those clonotypes (on the right). The dendrogram
at the left shows similarity relationships among the clusters based on
connections in the GEX and TCR neighbor graphs.

The choice of which marker genes to use for the GEX umap panels and for the
cluster GEX logos can be configured using run_conga.py command line flags
or arguments to the conga.plotting.make_logo_plots function.

